now we're going to
can we have astra taylor please astra
are you there
i am can you all see me yeah see in here
okay see you hear me okay great i just
want to echo everyone's thanks it's
really an honor to be here thank you
nika
thank you everyone um
a few days before david passed away i
got what would be my last text from him
we were trying to figure out a time to
talk and he said no idea of time time is
being reinvented
and for our friend david everything was
reinventable our economy our society our
values ourselves and even apparently
time itself
and i was thinking about how time was
different with david i went through our
correspondence after he passed away i
was struck by how instantaneously we
became friends a single coffee in the
west village in 2009 was all it took and
that was just
how david operated i don't think i was
particularly unique
there was an openness about him a
willingness to let people in
and you know given how prolific he was
as a writer incredibly prolific he
obviously spent a lot of time reading
and in the solitude of writing
um but he was also
incredibly gregarious and always up for
a phone call or for gossip for a walk
around an antique market
and that sociability fed into his
activism
in august of 2011 david sent me an email
trying to get me to go to the planning
meetings of what would become occupy
wall street he basically said look this
is a lot of fun for geeks like me
and i i didn't make it to those planning
meetings but i went the first day
and i remember how pleased david was at
zucconi park and he was like this
radical maitre d like welcoming us into
the space and checking on our progress
as we had these democratic assemblies
and david you know he didn't push me
into the occupy movement but he kept
opening these doors for me and i kept
walking through them
and i became more and more involved and
more invested and soon he wrote me into
uh a movement focused on and it came out
of occupy a movement focused on the
problem of debt
and one of our opening salvos was a
propaganda video featuring a dozen of
our friends in balaclavas dancing around
a burning trash can lighting their debt
notices on fire
and david is you know there among the
throngs dancing and he wrote this
communique style voiceover and i just
want to read a few lines he wrote we
ultimately understand that to be able to
take care of our children our friends
our families the people we care about is
a value that no accountant can ever
measure that no government loan
administrator or hedge fund manager can
ever have the right to take away from us
every dollar we take from a fraudulent
subprime mortgage speculator every
dollar we save from a collection agency
is a tiny piece of our own lives that we
can give back to our communities to
those we love and respect and for david
the debt resistance movement he helped
inspire was all about love and over time
it's grown into a proper organizing
effort in the us you know my friends and
many of us have carried the torch and
we've erased because of david we've
helped you raise billions and billions
of dollars of debt for people across
this country
and that's just one of the many things
that he helped ignite
david as we all know he had very strong
views but he wasn't dogmatic he wasn't a
sectarian i'll never forget a public
conversation we had in 2019 where he
talked about the pleasure of changing
your mind right like were you he said it
was a form of political happiness like
oh i can think differently right i can
think something else
and david's conviction that our minds
could be changed that our society could
be changed
you know was was empirically based in
his work as an anthropologist and just
you know he was a curious person right
so he was aware that human society's
value systems can vary wildly
across space across time and the very
often the stories we tell ourselves or
the stories we're told about the way
things are just aren't true
uh that
all of these arrangements all these
social arrangements political
arrangements can be transformed right
but here's the last thing i want to the
point i want to make home is that david
knew that you can't
change those things alone right so you
can write a brilliant best-selling book
like debt
which expands readers minds but really
that's no substitute for social
movements for collectivities for
rebellions for riots
and when david was in that mode of being
an activist he had this extraordinary
humility he was a peer among his equals
and i i think i he seemed the most happy
to me just sitting in a meeting you know
in a church basement
and i really respected him for that just
how much he embodied his principles in
those spaces he despised affectation an
abhorred hierarchy even one that would
put him at the top
so david may not be with us in person
anymore but his perspective remains
extremely vital his insistence on seeing
things differently on siding with the
underdogs on engaging people as an equal
and challenging the pompous and the
powerful finding joy and keeping that
utopian horizon in sight
so i think we need to channel david's
astonishing and heartfelt faith in his
fellow human beings and refuse to lose
sight of the possibility not necessarily
inevitability of our collective
liberation so thank you for having me
and thank you david you wouldn't like us
to owe you a debt but
definitely if we can pay it back it's by
continuing the struggle that you're part
of